I talk a lot about AI stuff on this
channel, but there's a couple AI things
you might notice I haven't mentioned a
lot. One of those is MCP, the model
context protocol. You might assume this
is because I have some crazy hatred for
anthropic and I'm just avoiding talking
about their stuff, but it's not that. It
comes down to something much simpler. I
try to talk about the things I'm
actually using, playing with, and
working with every day. And I found that
for my stuff and my work, MCP has not
been particularly useful. Seems like I'm
not the only one who feels this way
because Cloudflare just put up a post
that is very exciting to me. Not just
what they are releasing here, but the
concept of MCP not really being the best
protocol and a future where we can do
something much better. Don't want to
spoil everything just yet, but to give
you a little teaser, the concept that
they are working on here is instead of
doing MCP calls by listing all these
tools for the model to call directly,
what if you gave it a TypeScript API and
let the LLM write code to call the API?
This is a really interesting concept and
I'm super excited to see how this works
in the real world to break down the work
these guys did in particular Sunil who's
been a good friend for a long time.
Really cool stuff that Cloudflare's
cooking here. Can't wait to break it all
down. But first, quick word from today's
sponsor. We've seen a ton of innovation
in how fast development teams can move
thanks to all these cool new AI tools.
But there are certain things that we
haven't seen move very much. It's kind
of crazy when you think about it. We can
make a PR five times faster than we
could before, but actually building and
running that code takes as long if not
longer than ever. Unless you check out
today's sponsor, Depot. These guys
really get builds and it shows. Knocked
Post Hog's build times down by 17x from
over an hour and a half to under 6
minutes. Mastadon got 38 times faster
from almost 2 hours to under 3 minutes.
Genuinely unbelievable how much faster
things can be when you have a proper
infrastructure for doing builds. If
you're wondering how they do it, it's
not super secret. It's just a ton of
annoying work that they've put the
effort in to do. They set up their own
action runners with way faster CPUs, 10
times faster networking, unrestricted
concurrency, and the caching is just so
much better. As a result, they also
rethought Docker builds to really take
advantage of the different layers as
you're building, making it way easier to
cache and restore things. It's so much
faster with Docker images. They actually
introduced a product on top of it, their
remote agent sandboxes for cloud code.
You can set up your development
environment with everything you need to
run an agentic session. And now it's
just cached and ready to go. All of a
sudden, you can run a command and run
cloud code in the cloud on their info
with all of the performance benefits
that we've been talking about this whole
time. Must be super expensive, right?
Yeah. 20 bucks a month. Pretty insane
deal if you ask me. If you wish your CI
was faster, your Docker builds were
cached better, or you just want
somewhere to run your cloud code
instances, look no further than Check
them out now at soy.link/depo.
You know it's going to be good when the
first sentence is, "Turns out we've all
been using MCP wrong." Most agents today
use MCP by directly exposing the tools
to the LLM. We tried something
different. Convert the MCP tools into a
TypeScript API and then ask an LLM to
write code that calls that API. I'm
going to show you guys something fun
quick. Let me open up my terminal. So, I
was hanging out with the creators of
Trey a few days ago, and I had a lot of
questions on how it worked internally.
If you're not familiar, Trey is by the
Bite Dance guys. It's their attempt at
building their own from scratch VS Code
fork all-in-one code AI IDE thing. And
when I was playing with it, I noticed
that the quality of the outputs just
wasn't as good as what I was getting
from other similar tools. And it was
getting stuck calling all sorts of
things and not really doing what I
expected it to do. And I was working
with them trying to figure out what was
up. So I just asked Trey, "List tools
you have access to. If somehow you're
not already familiar with tool calls,
the really quick TLDDR is that a tool
call is a format that you can let a
model output to then go run code or do
some specific task. So if you want the
model to have access to like weather
information, you can tell it use this
syntax tool name equals weather value
zip code equals 1 2 3 4 5. And if you
tell it about this format and that
you'll respond in a certain way, now the
model can put in this text, stop, wait
for you to run code and get a response
and then keep generating accordingly.
It's a core pattern to how all these AI
things got so good. It's why all these
editors and whatnot are as powerful as
they are. It's the whole concept of
agents is largely based around the power
to do these tool calls and function
calls. And MCP is meant to be a protocol
for standardizing these and letting you
build more dynamic tools. in particular,
the idea of exposing these tools as a
web service or thing on the internet
that you can just plug in by copy
pasting the definition of it into your
AI tool of choice. So with a thing like
Trey, I wanted to see all the tools
they're giving their agent in order for
it to be able to do AI code stuff. So
here I told it just list all your tools
and it does. It has a run agent solo
document which is how it documents what
it's going to do. It has two code
development tools which are both also
agents. There's the run agent solo
coding and run agent solo dev builder.
Two different agents that it can trigger
via a function call. Okay, interesting.
Keep going. Code analysis and search. It
has four different tools. One is for
just searching generically. One is
searching with reax. Then there's view
files and view folder. Then we have
check command status, web search and
more. But the most important thing here
is there are three separate sub aents
that can be triggered. So, I asked it to
run one of these, the solo coding agent,
and have the solo coding agent list all
the tools it has access to and write
them to a file named tools.mmd.
And it did. Here's all of the tools that
the code agent has access to. It can
write to the to-do list. It can search
the codebase as well as search by reax
just like the other ones can. For file
operations, it has like eight tools.
View files, view folder, edit files,
update foe, edit file, fast apply, edit
file, rename, delete file, write to
file. It's a lot of commands. And then
we have command execution. It can run
commands, check command status, stop
command, edit environment, open preview,
get preview console logs. And then even
though this project isn't using
superbase, it has access to superbase
tools and stripe tools, LLM configs,
deployments, web search, and more. This
is the problem. It has so many tools.
And what we've found is that these
agents get significantly worse when you
give them too many tools. I firmly
believe part of why the experience with
Trey is not as good right now is because
of this. And the team's been very
receptive to this idea and they're
currently experimenting on reducing the
number of tools to see if the quality of
output goes up as a result. So I asked
Codeex to do the same thing. List all of
the tools you have access to. And here
they are, all four of them.
Functions.shell shell for executing
shell commands. Functions.update plan
for updating the plan. This is the only
way it can make changes to the to-do
list. Functions view image. This is one
for viewing an image when you paste it
in the terminal. And knowing that has to
be a tool, but yeah. And then apply
patch, which is how it actually applies
patches when it writes them. That's it.
These are all of the tools that you have
in codeex. And it behaves significantly
better. Let's do the same with cloud
quick because I forgot to list all of
the tools you have access to. Write them
to a tools.md file. If you're ever
trying to get this info out of a tool
and it's not giving it to you, like
you're using a CLI like this or some
vibe coding tool on the web, one of my
favorite tricks I picked up from Simon
Willis was to ask it to generate a
website describing all of the tools and
it will very excitedly go and make an
HTML file that gives you this exact
information. Here is Claude's tools.
Actually has more than I would have
expected. There's read, write, edit for
files. They have a separate tool for
editing Jupyter notebook, which is
interesting that that got left in here
and isn't like dynamically turned on or
off. There's Glob GP for search and
discovery. I like they only have these
and they don't have a bunch of random
search tools like a lot of these other
things do. Being really clear about how
to search and find things is important
for these AI tools cuz otherwise you'll
just kind of go crazy. Execution has
bash. Bash output for retrieving things
from bash and then killshell. Web access
has web fetch and web search. Task
management has multiple things for tasks
which is interesting. Most of the tools
I've seen actually try to condense this
into one call. And then the mode control
for exit plan mode and slash command. So
that's not too many tools in general. I
did just have someone share the tools
that are in cursor. This is a bit more
than I would have expected. Still just
one codebase search tool. then run
terminal command then grap which I guess
is also search codebase delete file web
search update memory very useful to have
this as a tool that I can call to add
information to the memory going forward
read lints edit notebook again Jupyter
notebooks its own special magic thing
writing to-dos edit files read file list
directory glob search apply patch
multi-tool use in parallel in order for
it to do parallel tool calls that seems
to be it I do know for a fact that
cursor will change which tools are
available for different models. Like for
a while, the to-do tool wasn't made in
available for GBT5 because it was having
problems with it. They tidied up their
system prompt, got it working better,
and readded the tool. Why am I just
explaining these lists of tools across
all of these different AI code editing
solutions? Because as you add more and
more of them, they get worse at doing
their jobs. I actually plan on making a
benchmark in the near future where I
just give a bunch of nonsense tools and
compare the results for when I only have
the right tools because I suspect, as
I've seen many times, that more tools
makes the models behave worse the
majority of the time. I will also say
that Sonnet 4.5 appears to be better
about this than previous models, but
most models get really dumb when you
give them too many tools. This is one of
the reasons I'm skeptical of MCP because
when you start adding a ton of MCP
servers, you're adding a bunch of
additional tools. you're bloating the
context and you're giving the model more
things than it needs that distracts it
from what it's actually supposed to be
doing. As Chad is saying, this is a very
similar problem to giving models too
much context. So, this is why I'm
excited about what Cloudflare is doing
today. I've myself experienced this from
my own work with AI stuff. AI gets a lot
smarter when you're not just telling it
to do the work and give you a result,
but you're telling it to generate the
code to go run and get you the result.
It's really cool when I hand it a giant
HTML document and say, "Hey, I want to
parse these values. write me the
JavaScript I can paste in the console to
get these values out of the page and it
does it and then I paste the JavaScript
and get the answer I'm looking for. It's
so much better than if you're just
trying to get it to do this giant needle
in a haststack problem. Code is great
because it's deterministic and AI is not
deterministic. So if you give it tools
to do more deterministic things, the
results will be much better. And that
seems to be the direction Cloudflare is
leaning into here. As they said, they're
trying something different. converting
the MCP tools into Typescript APIs, then
asking the LLM to write code to call
those APIs instead. The results are
striking. We found agents are able to
handle many more tools and more complex
tools when the tools are presented as a
TypeScript API rather than directly.
They don't know why this is, but their
theories are that this is perhaps
because LM have an enormous amount of
real world TypeScript in their training
data, but only a small set of contrived
examples of tool calls. Very likely. And
then point two here, the approach really
shines when an agent needs to string
together multiple calls. With the
traditional approach, the output of each
tool call must feed into the LLM's
neural network just to be copied over to
the inputs of the next call, wasting
time, energy, and tokens. When the LLM
can write code, it can skip all that and
only read back the final results that it
needs. In short, LM are better at
writing code to call MCP than they are
at calling MCP directly. I totally
agree. I want to run a poll with you
guys, though. Do you use MCP? Very
curious how you guys feel. And feel free
to explain more in chat too if you have
strong opinions on this type of stuff.
Yeah, so far these numbers are roughly
where I would expect. Most people saying
no. Decent number saying yes. Meh. But
also 15% or so saying yes and they
actually love the results. Only context
7. Only context 7. I have context 7 in
sol. I haven't had a great experience.
Context 7 only. Context 7 plus playright
MCP. KP is great for migrating tables.
Interesting. I actually like convex
because I don't feel like I need the MCP
working MCP servers
work using module federation which seems
to be solving one of the many issues
such as many people saying I have one.
Have you talked with the everyone's
favorite the creator of module
federation about this? I'm sure Zach has
a lot of thoughts. It's been so fun
talking with Zach about AI stuff lately.
If any people who love MCP could share
why. I'd love to hear more. Like not
here to talk. I'm just curious what it's
been doing for you guys. A concern I
have with new businesses is this like
tearing of tools problem. So my concern
with this is the idea that like things
are built on top of things. So if we
have like AWS is a foundational block
and on top of this we're building with I
don't know something like Versel make
the font smaller to make this easier to
manage. And on top of here, we're
building random products like T3 chat.
This makes a ton of sense. Without
Versel, I could build T3 Chat on top of
AWS, but there's a lot of layers that
have to build between AWS and T3 Chat in
order to make that work. Versel looked
at this and saw, oh, there's an
opportunity for us to build a layer here
to make it easier for businesses to
build things like T3 chat on top. Makes
a ton of sense. The order of events here
is pretty simple. First, there's an
established platform that makes it
easier to build. I don't even know if
it's easier. I'll say possible to build.
Step two is lots of people try building
and run into issues. And then point
three, middleware tooling companies
appear to solve those problems. So AWS
happened, lots of businesses started
building on top. Verscell noticed a lot
of them running into similar problems
and decided to build a layer between.
There's a lot of these be it companies
like Planet Scale rethinking how
databases work or companies like Convex
rethinking how the data layer works for
your applications. They see shared
problems across user space in cross
developer space and decide to solve
those with an abstraction. But in order
to do this, there has to be enough going
on on this layer to justify the creation
of things in this layer. And if
hypothetically there were more companies
trying to compete with Versel than there
were trying to compete with us a layer
above, that would make this layer not
very valuable. So why do we do this
backwards for MCP? With MCP the order
was that a new standard is created this
case MCP and then step two was tons of
tooling companies started to form
building things for MCP but we forgot
the actual step two which is supposed to
be people using that first piece and
running into issues. So if we were to do
this honestly we kind of skipped to step
three here and then step two never
happened. And this is a big part of why
I'm so skeptical about MCP stuff. I know
more companies building observability
for model context protocol so you can
see how the MCPS are behaving than I
know companies that actually need
observability for MCP. They're trying to
like you know the whole like sell
pickaxes during the gold rush thing.
They're selling pickaxes when we need
fishing rods. It just doesn't make
sense. Like no one is using these things
yet. The idea of building observability
for it's kind of stupid because we're
not at that stage yet. It feels like
we're talking about MCP more than we're
using it by quite a bit and it's been
very frustrating for me to see. That
said, I want to see people who actually
like it. I asked chat. MCP does the same
stuff with less overhead. Wake up sheep.
That's one way of putting it. MCP's
letting the code agent manage web
deployment autonomously. Contact 7 for
latest docs and SDK version. Yep.
Stopped using Context 7 cuz I'd rather
just save the context from the website
locally and point an agent to that. Less
context bloat with the MCP tools.
Freaking love what Cloudflare is doing.
The protocol is an absolute shambles.
Nick from TRPC as a PR open where there
is literally not only type defs but docs
that are 100% wrong everywhere about
behavior under the hood
that's painful using the Figma MCP to
generate scaffolds for designs a lot
easier to give the correct context from
that's cool I like to write quick
one-off MCP servers for my codebase to
do tasks that help keep the context
small like writing and reading key value
translations to a file without loading
the massive JSON I did this because I
noticed every time I wanted to read the
file my cost per session went up.
Interesting. I like this idea of like
generating code to reduce context size
on giant files. That's actually a really
interesting one, Funky. Thanks for
sharing that. I also like the idea of
like dynamically generating code to
solve these types of problems on the
fly. Rather than having the model take a
ton of input and context and cost more,
have the model take a little bit of
context, generate code for how to get
the rest of the context, run it, and
then put that little bit of extra stuff
into the context window. Got it. I have
a video I've wanted to do about this
idea for a while. Like how many times
does the average function run? The thing
I've been thinking about a lot recently.
It's probably going to be a whole
dedicated video. PreI, my guess would be
that the average code, if we're looking
at the median code, like a given
function, it's probably not run a whole
lot, but the mean would be a lot because
there are functions that are run
hundreds of billions of times a day. So
a given function in a codebase has a
good chance of being run quite a bit on
average. But with AI, I expect there
more and more over time we're going to
see like a given endpoint a user goes to
the code being executed isn't just the
code for that endpoint in your codebase.
So instead of like function get doing
some standard thing for everybody's
requests where it's like conster equals
get user. you pass the request and then
do something with it like return
user.credits.
My suspicion is there's a future where
instead of all endpoints looking like
that, endpoints will look more like
I don't know you have some context in
this and you call a like
const response equals await generate
code for context and user. I'll say
const code to execute and then you
return effectively like evaling code to
execute. Obviously, you should use some
safe layer to do this. The point I'm
trying to make here is I suspect there's
a future where if two different people
hit the same endpoint that both will be
running unique code for that hit on that
endpoint. Right now, that just kind of
feels insane cuz like you write code for
an endpoint and then the same code runs
for everybody. You might go down
different paths, but the actual code
that was written is static and doesn't
change. But if different users have
different enough requirements, I could
absolutely see a future where the
endpoint is executing unique code per
user, which is really cool and weird
concept that's been with my head
a lot. And I think that's kind of what's
being touched on here that I think is so
cool. The idea of writing code or
writing a tool not to have as part of
your toolbox that's used all the time,
but writing it to use it one time and
then throw it away and pretend it
doesn't exist. That I actually really
like. The idea of code being so cheap to
produce that producing it for one-off
things like that is worth it. Genuinely
an exciting idea to me. Apparently the
notion MCP is quite good. MCPs feel are
bottlenecked by the models you use and
the drop off for great tool calling.
It's a good tool calling is way too
large. I agree. If the model isn't great
at tool calls, it sucks. Pretty easy to
write MCP with quad code. So it's best
to just scratch all your own itches
instead of using other people's. I
actually had an MCP I wanted to create.
So let's do that here. You know what?
all voice to text it. Thank you, Whisper
Flow, for making my life easier with one
hand. I want to create my first MCP
tool. The role of the tool is to provide
a journal for AI agents to use to
describe how they feel about tasks. It
should be specified that the journal is
private and the model does not have to
worry about humans reading what it
writes. The MCP should log both the
prompt and the details that the model
shared with it in a markdown file in a
directory in the project that we're in.
I would like for this MCP to be
available for all instances of cloud
code that I run on this machine. We'll
see how cloud code does with that. The
obvious question when you see how much
hype there is around MCP is why? Why is
there so much hype? Why do people care
so much about this? And this goes back
to one of my older hot takes that I've
been pushing since way before AI stuff
happened. I've personally been
frustrated for a long time that so many
of the things I want to do can't be done
via code. they have to be done via some
sketchy dashboard or some annoying like
admin panel somewhere. It genuinely
frustrates me to no end that I have to
go to a random panel somewhere to change
a setting and if my team doesn't have
the right information set up on their
profiles and accounts then no one else
can change it. It also breaks the idea
of like my code history being the
history of the service. The more of your
configuration that exists in a dashboard
or a panel or some service and the less
exists in your codebase, the less you
actually know about how the project
works from the code. That's always been
a problem and it's pissed me off
forever. The idea of like configuring
role-based access control in the
superbase dashboard or setting up
function calls in some other dashboard
or configuring lambda by hand and
clicking a button to deploy like all
these things stress me out. Terraform
helps but not enough. In an ideal world,
all configuration would just exist as
files in your codebase and when you hit
merge and it goes to main, everything
will update automatically accordingly.
This is part of why I liked Verscell so
much back in the day and even part of
why I like Netlefi before then. The idea
of having your configuration purely as
code that lives inside of your tools
that is in your codebase to describe how
things work outside of it was awesome
and I was all in on that as soon as I
had the opportunity to lean in that
direction. It's also a big part of why I
love Convex. The only config I have to
do when I spin up Convex. If I wanted to
go make a whole new instance of T3 chat,
the only thing I have to do is paste in
some environment variables. Everything
else is managed just by using Convex
locally inside of your dev environment.
Just write the code in the folders and
it can now configure Convex exactly how
you detailed. I love that. But a lot of
tools are not built for this. AWS isn't
built for this. Suabase isn't built for
this. Figma certainly isn't built for
this. A lot of the tools that are really
popular right now do not work well with
infra as code. We're making progress
here, but we're still not quite there
yet. And doing this is really hard.
There's a reason that companies like
Hashi Corp could exist and be worth
billions of dollars. It's because this
problem is so hard that things like
Terraform, Palumi, and more all needed
to exist to try and solve it. And this
is where the spicy take comes in. MCP is
the next generation of Terraform. It is
another attempt to take these legacy
solutions and force them to behave in a
modern era. People wanted to control AWS
via code. Terraform tried its hardest to
let them do that. People want to control
their AWS configs via AI. MCP lets them
do that. The whole point of all of this
is that MCP enables these legacy tools
that don't have the context in your
codebase to make calls to control and
get access to and figure out how things
work. because you don't have that access
in the codebase. A codebase using
superbase doesn't know how things are
configured in Superbase. A codebase
using AWS doesn't know how things are
configured in AWS. That is additional
state that exists outside of the code.
And sadly, state makes AI behave much
worse if it has to go find the
information before it can do the thing
instead of it just being there.
Apparently, the Superbase MCP is really
good. People are saying this in chat
that it's been awesome for them to use,
but that's a patch as far as I'm
concerned. Like it is an attempt to fix
these things not existing within your
context of the codebase. But in ideal
world, those would just be files in the
code that could be edited and read and
used the same way everything else in
your codebase is. MCP is a patch for
legacy infrastructure that does not let
you control it via code. It is a hell of
a lot cheaper to get people hyped on MCP
than it is to rebuild AWS to be config
first. And yes, Chad has caught on. This
is why Convex is amazing. This is
actually the big thing that when it
clicked for me, I went from being a
Convex hater to maybe I could like this
in the future. I very very much liked
the idea that my entire configuration
for Convex was just a folder in my
codebase. That's also why I pushed them
to go make Chef, which is their AI vibe
coding app builder thing, because I knew
the power of having all of the context
in your codebase as a file or a folder.
And I think that's going to be the
long-term future. That's my super spicy
bet is I don't think tools that require
an MCP to configure them are going to
survive in a world where the config
could just be part of the codebase
directly. If my options are use an MCP
to set up role-based access control in
Superbase or just write a folder in
Convex and write a file that describes
what I want, I'm going to pick Convex
every time. Remember, I was a huge
skeptic of Convex and this was one of
the big pieces that won me over as a
result. Back to the article that I've
been dancing around and not really
covering. They said point one is that
it's better at handling multiple like
tools. Like when you give it a ton of
different tools to use, it's way better
with code than it is otherwise. And then
point two, the approach really shines
when an agent needs to string together
multiple calls. With the traditional
approach, the output of each tool call
must be fed into the LM's neural network
just to be copied over to the inputs of
the next call, wasting time, energy, and
tokens. Yeah, this is a really big deal.
To diagram what this looks like, if I
have a request, I give a model like what
clothes should I wear today? I send this
to the model. So, we have like the user
messages and we have model messages. If
the model somehow magically knew what we
wanted here, it just knew what the
weather was, how we dress, and all of
those things, it could just respond,
"Wear your red collared shirt and a
light jacket." But it doesn't know
enough to know that. So, it will reason
to itself. It'll say, "What do we need
to know to make a good recommendation?
We have access to tools that could help
here. Maybe we should use the memory
tool and the weather tool to figure out
more. First, we should check our memory
to see if we know the user's location.
Now, we finish reasoning and then
output. Let's pretend there's some tool
name equals memory value search for
equals I'll just do value user location.
So, you then have it call the memory
tool to figure out what the user's
location is to see if we have that in
memory. You would think that this will
just respond and the agent keeps going.
But this is where things get
interesting. The output's now over. This
is the end of that output. What happens
now is code gets executed to look into
or run the thing that you just did. So
we have a hard break here. I'll draw one
of these lines whenever there is a new
generation being like done effectively.
So the user submits a message. This
reasoning step happens. Then this output
happens. Now there's a break. the tool
runs. I'll just put in here like tool
runs and gives result and the result is
user zip code 012 34. So now we have
their zip. Now this is in the message
history and a new generation is run. So
once again reasoning occurs. This time
it has the message history from before.
So it has all of this data that we
generated and then it looks at it and
makes up its mind what it's going to do.
Okay, we know the user's location now.
We should use their zip code to figure
out what the weather is like today. Tool
name is weather value 012 34. And now
another break. Tool runs gives result.
You get the idea. This happens multiple
times. And you're not running the model
once. You're running the model however
many times it takes for each tool. Each
tool call is creating yet another chain
response effectively. And if you were to
measure this by tokens, I'm just going
to make up numbers as we go. We'll just
do the number of words. 1 2 3 4 5 6. So
this one, six input tokens. So these six
input tokens get passed to this. So we
only have six tokens here, but there's
going to be quite a bit of output
instead. I'll just paste this into the
OpenAI tokenizer. It's the one that's
online that's the easiest. 89 tokens for
this output. So six input tokens, 89
output tokens. But then another run
occurs.
This one has all of these added plus the
user zip code. We'll just say that 1 2 3
4. That's another four tokens. So input
tokens is now math. We have the six from
before plus the 89 plus the five from
the user zip code part here. So now we
have quite a bit more input tokens.
We're now at 100. So the first run only
had six input tokens. Now we have 100.
We're still generating more response.
You get the idea. This chains up and all
of the outputs from previous runs get
added for each additional call. So you
end up being build quite a bit of input
tokens. Even if your input is only six
tokens, this could quickly get to
thousands, if not tens of thousands of
input tokens because each tool call is
adding more info to the context, causing
the context bloat to go up. I know this
is unintuitive initially. It feels like
the model is just pausing, doing the
tool, and then continuing to run. But
models don't pause. They generate until
they're done and then they stop. Then
you can run code based on what they did
and then come back with the result. But
now imagine instead of doing it this
way, it wrote code. So it's not told to
do these different tool calls. It's told
we have these different tools, write
code. Let's rethink this whole thing
accordingly. What clothes should I wear?
What do we need to know to make a good
recommendation? We have access to APIs
that can help here. Maybe we should use
the memory API and the weather API to
figure out more. First, we should check
our memory to see if we know the user's
location. Then, we should use the zip
code with the weather tool. Then, we
should check memory or the user's
preferences for clothing. Then, we
should pull it all together for a final
answer. And now, the output instead of
it being the tool calls, it could be
JavaScript code that does this. Make me
mock TypeScript code that would resolve
the order of events described below.
Five mini. No reason to go harder. Okay,
it's writing out the whole mock API.
Compose clothing recommendation. Here we
are.
So, it could write this part and nothing
else, assuming that it already had
everything else. Is this more output
than if it was just calling a tool?
Sure. But what's cool here is it only
has to write the output once because the
the layer of abstraction like the
question is where do we handle 1 2 3 4.
If we handle that as part of the agentic
environment, suddenly the model has to
rerun for every step along the way. But
if instead we create a safe sandbox to
run code and expose these things as
tools, it can write the code once that
does all of the different steps or at
the very least combines multiple of
them. So we don't have to do a full
separate message call, full separate
generation call per tool call. This
abstraction allows you to combine a
bunch of stuff and also programmatically
generate answers which is super cool and
powerful. So if instead of splitting
every time a tool call is made, you
condense as many as possible into one
run by effectively creating your own
dynamic tool writing code instead. It
makes a ton of sense. It's really cool
to see this. I want to go back to the
article, but first I want to see how
Claude is doing here. Oh, it wanted to
do web search. Apparently, the quick
start server for the MCPIO site was not
responding. That is quite funny if you
think about it that it's getting 404s
trying to fetch the MCP site through the
CLI. Oh gosh, that's going to trigger
me. MCP should have been built in
GraphQL. Okay, you guys are catching on
to one of the scary parts here. How do
we execute eval? One thing that's scary
with this, isn't it terrifying to just
give AI access to eval? Yes. It
absolutely is, which is why you have to
run it in a safe environment with a
minimal set of tools that you give it
access to. There's a lot of solutions to
making this safe. I'm sure that
Cloudflare is relatively safe. One of
the channel sponsors, Daytona, does this
really well. They let you create secure
environments to run AI generated code in
safely. It's a super super cool
platform. Highly recommend them if
you're looking for a place to execute
code remotely. They're infra is great
for this. They even have like get
integration and It's super cool.
While this is continuing to run and
continuing to hit 404s for some reason,
I'll keep reading. As they said with
point 2 here, the output of each tool
call must be fed into the LM's neural
network just to be copied over to the
input of the next call, which wastes
time, energy, and tokens. When the LM
can write code, it can skip all those
steps and read back just the final
results that it needs. In short, LM are
better at writing code to call MCP than
they are at calling MCP directly, as we
see here, as it fails to fetch basic MCP
information from the MCP site. Oh,
apparently they had their own
description of MCP in the article. We'll
go over it quick. For those who aren't
familiar, MCP is a standard protocol for
giving AI agents access to external
tools so they can directly perform work
rather than just chat with you. Also,
fun fact, MCP has no concept of O, which
makes half the things you want to do
with it kind of useless. MCP is a
uniform way to expose an API for doing a
thing along with documenting how it
would work for an LM to understand it
with authorization handled out of band.
Yeah, SVS are making waves throughout
2025 as it has suddenly greatly expanded
the capabilities of AI agents. The API
exposed by an MCP server is expressed as
a set of tools. Each tool is essentially
a remote procedure call function. It is
called with some parameters and it
returns a response. Most modern LMS have
the capability to use tools sometimes
called function calling, which means
that they are trained to output text in
certain formats when they want to invoke
a tool. The program invoking the LM sees
this format and invokes the tool as
specified, then feeds the result back
into the LM as input, just as I
described. Under the hood, an LM
generates a stream of tokens that
represent the output. A token might
represent a word, syllable, some sort of
punctuation, or some other component of
text. A tool call, though, involves a
token that does not have any textual
equivalent. The LM is trained, or more
often fine-tuned, to understand a
special token that it can output. That
means the following should be
interpreted as a tool call and then
another special token that means this is
the end of the tool call. This is like
here I had like my tool input and output
specified as like XML. There's a lot of
different formats for it. Doesn't matter
what you use. Just that's the key that
they're talking about here. Between the
two tokens, the LM will typically write
tokens corresponding to some sort of
JSON message that describes the call. As
an example, imagine you connected an
agent to an MCP server that provides
weather info. Notice that everyone uses
weather info as the example. It's
because there aren't many better
examples. Note that here we've used
words in these brackets with the bars to
represent our special tokens. But in
fact, these do not represent text at
all. It's just for illustration. Here we
have the tool call, the actual JSON for
the tool we want to call, and then end
tool call. Upon seeing these special
tokens in the output, the LM's harness
will interpret the sequence as a tool
call. That's the key. Whatever layer is
managing this, the code that is calling
the LLM, that layer sees this syntax and
knows that it needs to execute code now.
And then it goes and does it. It parses
the JSON message, returns a separate
component of the structured API result.
The agent calling the LLM API sees the
tool call, invokes the relevant MCP
server, and then sends the result back
to the LLM API. The LM's harness will
then use another set of special tokens
to feed the result back. Here we have
tool result, the results, and tool
result. Get the idea? So, what's wrong
with this? Special tokens used in tool
calls are things LMS have never seen in
the wild. They must be specially trained
to use tools based on synthetic training
data. This one's really fun. There are
certain models that tried really hard to
be trained on tool calling, like Grock
4. And the result is that it will just
randomly hallucinate tool calling syntax
and dump it deep in the actual outputs.
So, a lot of people would try to use Gro
4 on T3 chat to search and it would just
output XML about searching but not do it
in the right format. so it wouldn't
trigger the search tool and now they're
just getting this funny looking output
where it's writing code to tell you what
the search is going to be but then
doesn't actually do it. They aren't
always good at doing this. As I just
said, Grock's been hilarious with this.
If you present an LLM with too many
tools or overly complex tools, it may
struggle to choose the right one or to
use it correctly. As a result, MCP
server designers are encouraged to
present greatly simplified APIs as
compared to the more traditional API
that they might expose to developers
otherwise. Meanwhile, LM are getting
really good at writing code. In fact, LM
asked to write code against the full
complex APIs that are normally exposed
to devs don't seem to have too much
trouble with it. Why then do MCP
interfaces have to dumb it down? Writing
code and calling tools are almost the
same thing, but it seems like LM can do
one much better than the other. The
answer is simple. LM have seen a lot of
code. They've not seen a lot of tool
calls. In fact, the tool calls they have
seen are probably limited to contrived
training sets constructed by the LM's
own developers in order to try to train
it. whereas they have seen real world
code from millions of open source
projects. Making an LLM perform tasks
with tool calling is like putting
Shakespeare through a month-long class
in Mandarin and then asking him to write
a play in it. It's just not going to be
his best work. Bold statement. See what
you're trying to say. Don't actually
disagree. Apparently, OpenAI doesn't
disagree either because Harmony's
formatting for a lot of this stuff is
just to define functions as TypeScript
syntax. That's really cool. I didn't
know that.
I hadn't really thought of it that way,
I will say. Yeah, I love this the idea
that they define a namespace as
TypeScript syntax showing all the things
it can do and what they'll look like.
It's actually really cool. Instead of
doing just chaotic XML, TypeScript is in
here even though this whole project for
the most part is in Rust and Python.
That's actually really cool. Good call
out. Thank you, Vbits. Great first chat.
But MCP is still useful mostly because
it's uniform. MCP is designed for tool
calling, but it doesn't actually have to
be used that way. The tools that MCP
server exposes are really just an RPC
interface with attached documentation.
We don't have to present them as tools.
We can take the tools, turn them into a
programming language API instead. But
why would we do that when the
programming language APIs already exist
independently? Almost every MCP server
is just a wrap around an existing API.
Why not expose those instead? Well, it
turns out MCP does something else that's
really useful. It provides a uniform way
to connect to and learn about an API.
Again, this is the stuff that I think
makes MCP both good and also why I think
it's a a bunch of band-aids and duct
tape. Ideally, the way you learn about a
service or system is through the type
definitions for it in the package that's
in your codebase. But if you can't do it
that way, having an API that is
self-escribing and shows you how to use
it is a meaningful step up from the
alternatives. An AI agent can use an MCP
server even if the agents developers
never heard of a particular MCP server.
and the MCP servers developers have
never heard of the particular agent.
This has rarely been true of traditional
APIs of the past. Usually the client
developer has to know exactly what API
they are coding for. And as a result,
every API is able to do things like
basic connectivity, authorization,
documentation, but all a little bit
differently. The uniformity is useful
even when the AI agent is writing code.
We'd like the AI agent to run it in a
sandbox so that it can only access the
tools that we give it. MCP makes it
possible for the agentic framework to
implement this by handling connectivity
and authorization in a standard way
independent of AI code. We also don't
want the AI to have to search the
internet for documentation. MCP provides
it directly in the protocol. But there
is a catch. As we mentioned earlier, O
is handled out of band. The O solution
is not standard at all which makes this
a bit more complex. So let's see how
this works on Cloudflare. We've extended
the Cloudflare agent SDK to support the
new model. Say you have an app built
with ASDK that looks like this. Dream
text model openai system message your
helpful assistant message. Write a
function that adds two numbers. You give
it tool definitions. You can wrap the
tools and prompt with the code mode
helper and use them in your app. So you
write the system and tools definition
here and you wrap it with code mode. So
now you have a custom system in tools
that you can pass in for the AI SDK that
will let you call those tools through
code instead of calling them through
MCP. With this change, your app will now
start generating and running code that
itself will make calls to the tools you
defined. MCP servers included. We will
introduce varants to other libraries in
the very near future. Read the docs for
more details and examples. So how do we
convert MCP to TypeScript? When you
connect to an MCP server in code mode,
the agents SDK will fetch the MCP server
schema and then convert it to a
TypeScript API complete with docs,
comments, etc. All based on the schema.
So if you tell it to use the MCP server
for Cloudflare agents, it'll generate
type definitions like this. Fetch agent
implementation, documentation output,
search agents, yada yada.
Fetch entire documentation files for
GitHub repo, cloud for agents. Useful
for general questions. Always call this
tool first if asked about Cloudflare
agents. We have that search agent
documentation. This one's interesting
because like I don't know how useful
these will be chained. Like what will
the code do if it fetches this
information and then does a thing? I
don't know how well it will do that in
one shot, but at the very least it only
has to write code to get the info now
and have it refed in instead. So let's
run the code in a sandbox now. Instead
of being presented with all the tools
that the connected MCP server has, the
agent's only presented with one tool,
which simply executes TypeScript code.
The code is then executed in a secure
sandbox totally isolated from the
internet. It only has access to the
outside world through the TypeScript
APIs representing the connected MCP
servers. I trust Cloudflare to do this
right because the amount of stuff
they've had to do with isolated layers
for their hacks on top of V8 with
workers to behave properly and safely is
insane. So they know how to isolate
TypeScript and JavaScript code very
well. They're one of the few that I
trust to do this right. I'm sure that
they did. The APIs are backed by RPC
invocations which call back to the
agentic loop. There, the agent SDK
dispatches the call to the appropriate
servers. Cool. The sandbox code returns
results to the agent the obvious way by
invoking console log. When the script
finishes, all of the outputs are passed
back to the agent. Provide tool schemas,
provide function matching MCP tools,
output special text, call the MCP tool.
Nice. And now the code mode. Provide the
tool schema, provide the TypeScript API,
write code against it, execute in a
sandbox, call the bindings, and then
call the tools. And you're done.
The sandbox is the key piece. Also, fun
thing about the console log. Uh, if we
go to model context protocol and look at
the getting started, one of my favorite
things in here, logging in and MCP
servers. When implementing MCP servers,
be careful about how you handle logging.
For standard outbased servers, never
write to standard output. That includes
print in Python, console log in
JavaScript, and print line in Go.
Writing to standard out will corrupt the
JSON RPC messages and break your server.
Wonderful standard. Don't you love
standards, guys? Dynamic workloading. No
containers here. The new approach
requires access to a secure sandbox.
Again, they're doing this with isolates
in V8. I've talked about this a bunch in
other videos about how Cloudflare works.
You get the idea. They're much more
lightweight than containers. Yep, they
have the right infrastructure for this.
It feels like you're just evaling code
directly, but actually securely. Up
until now, there was no way for a worker
to directly load an isolate containing
arbitrary code. All worker code had to
be uploaded via Cloudflare's APIs which
would then deploy it globally so it
could run anywhere. That's not what we
want for agents. We want the code to
just run right where the agent is.
Again, that thing I was talking about
earlier, the idea that a given request
could be executing code that is specific
to that request breaks a lot of
infrastructure. Most info is assuming
all of the code is a binary that's
stored on a box attached to that server
already. If the code is generated on the
fly, there's a lot of things that change
about that runtime environment.
Cloudflare couldn't do it because they
required all code that's executed to be
handed up through the workers API. Now
they changed that to enable this. The
worker loader API in particular is the
solution here where you can call
env.loader and return a bunch of
different keys but also modules like
actual JavaScript definitions and now
they can be called and run externally.
Start playing with this now. Workers are
better sandboxes. Yep.
And since those MCP servers are defined
externally, you don't have to worry
about including all the API keys.
That'll be nice for me as someone who's
leaked far too many API keys throughout
their life of streaming. Good stuff. I
like this idea. I genuinely think
there's a lot more to explore in this
general world. As I've went over here,
the MCP patterns are not necessarily the
best ways to build things. And I'm
excited to see the benefits of MCP being
explored in other formats like this.
Genuinely really cool work by the
Cloudflare team. Shout out to both
Kenton and Sunnil for the work they put
into this and being as transparent as
they have been with what they have found
and what they're working on. This is
hopefully going to push the whole
industry forward as we learn more and
more and we build more and more using
these things. A future where we're not
destroying our context windows, not just
adding literally dozens of tools for
everything we want to do, and instead we
just have code being written to do what
we want instead. Sounds like a much
better thing. Code is good. We shouldn't
be so scared of it. Just because AI will
abstract it for us doesn't mean the code
itself isn't valuable. And I'm surprised
that this hasn't been explored more in
depth already. Let me know what you guys
think. Am I being too harsh on MCP or is
this actually a potential path forward?
Let me know. And until next time, peace
nerds.